All right, well, welcome to the third and
final part of this workshop,
where we are going to create our
own custom machine learning model.
So, previously, we have used a pre-train
model, where we just import and
then feed it new data, and in a few
lines of code, we get some predictions.
And then we moved on to transfer learning,
where we are kind of combining
a pre-trained model and
adding our own examples and
retraining a model on top of that.
But now, we're going to kinda
do everything from scratch.
And not only are we gonna create our own
model, we're also going to create our own
data set that we're going
to feed into that model.
And there's kind of two reasons for that.
So, first of all, I kind of wanted
you to maybe experience the pain of
creating your own dataset, just because
you'll have a better idea of how
long it takes to actually
create a data set that works.
And you'll see, well, we won't create
an asset that has thousands or
millions of images because we
won't have the time for that.
But we'll do maybe 40, 50, images each,
cuz the model that we're gonna create
is gonna be an image classification
model with our own samples.
And the second reason why I
want people to build their own
data set is because sometimes,
if you end up doing that at work,
even if you find a data set
online that's open source,
sometimes the license does not allow
you to use it for commercial purposes.
So it's a good thing to kind of experience
what it's like to actually build your own.
And if you ended up doing image detection
at work, you could use photos and
things like that, but
even then, taking pictures and
labeling them and things like that,
it does take time.
So in this particular project,
we're going to work not with pictures, but
with drawings that were
going to draw ourselves.
So if you navigate to the project
three folder in the exercises
folder of the repository,
first of all, what we're gonna do
is if you open your terminal,
or sorry, not your code editor.
So just to explain a little
bit what's going on in the,
let's say the initial state of
our application, let's run it.
So if you go to a terminal and
you run npm, run watch,
it's just going to start
a Python server on port 1234,
so if we open then the browser on 1234,
yeah.
Then just select the public folder, and
you should end up on something like this.
So we just have a simple page, image
detector with a canvas here in the middle.
And what we're gonna end up doing,
is draw shapes like this, but
at the moment, there's no interaction in
the buttons, but there are three of them.
So the clear button is going to allow us
to clear the Canvas every time that we
draw a new shape.
So at the moment, the functionality
is not implemented, so if you click,
nothing is happening.
But then we'll have a Predict button
here so that when our model is ready and
we're actually loading it in this UI later
on, we'll be able to draw a new shape,
click predict, and it should not
return us the label about prediction.
And then the download button here is going
to actually download images locally.
So we're going to do that a few times,
we're going to pick two
different shapes that we want.
And then, change the name of these files
so that then we'll use the name of
the file size labels, and we'll work on
getting all our data from our local files.
Then we'll create model,
we'll train it, and
then we'll use our custom
model back in the UI.
So first of all,
let's implement the clear functionality so
that then we can start to be
able to clear the Canvas.
So what I need to show you then, so here,
if you look at the index.html file,
we have a Canvas here and we'll have
a div for the prediction that we
won't use right away, we'll use
when we import the model later on.
This, we don't need to worry about now
that's for the next step as well, and
here we have a few buttons.
And what you should have here when
you downloaded the repository
is just the index.js,
file, but let's add a script tag above
it and import the utils file as well.
And I will show you what's in there, so
if you just add a script tag
with the source utils.js,
and type module,
then I'll go through what this file has.
But again, it has just functions
around handling drawing on the Canvas,
cuz that's not necessarily directly
related to TensorFlow.js, but
I just wanted to kind of
be able to get started.
So if we look at what's in there, so
it's, if you have ever worked with Canvas
before where you can draw on it,
you might be familiar with it.
It's not super important to really,
really dive into this.
But if we look at your Canvas,
we have a an EventListener on mousedown,
and then I just have a function where
I'm getting basically the x and
y coordinates of my drawings.
And I'm redrawing it as as I'm moving
the mouse, and then mousemove.
Same, so we don't necessarily
have to really go into this,
it's just the functionality to
be able to draw on the Canvas.
And then I just have a re-drow function.
And again, this is just details function.